Draft: Blogpost über KubeCon mit Titel "The Highlights Of KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2022" (#42)
qaware/qaware-blog-source: content/posts/kubecon-eu-2022.md

---
title: "The highlights of KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2022" # todo
date: 2022-06-22T16:57:04+02:00 # todo
draft: true
author: "[Alex Krause](https://github.com/alex0ptr), [Felix Kampfer](https://github.com/FelixKampfer), [Sebastian Macke](https://github.com/s-macke), [Markus Zimmermann](https://github.com/markuszm)", [Dirk Kröhan](https://github.com/dkroehan) # add yourself
image: "KubeConEU2022_GroupPhoto.jpg"
tags: ["Cloud", "Cloud Native", "Kubernetes"]
summary: "Our highlights of the KubeCon + CloudNativeCon EU 2022."
---

The KubeCon + CloudNativeCon Europe is the most important conference for Cloud Native hosted by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation. After 2 years of remote conferences, we felt it was the right time for us to pack our bags and be there on site in Valencia. It was a great opportunity to learn everything new about Cloud Native and have interesting conversations with the leaders in the Cloud Native space.

> The conference was taking place in Fira València, a fairground in the northwest of Valencia that was easily reachable by public transportation from the city center. Registration and badge pick up went really smooth as we managed to be there on the day before the big opening to attend some inspiring lightning talk. The first exciting moment was when we entered the keynote area, and we knew, this is going to be a big event!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The conference was taking place in Fira València, a fairground in the northwest of Valencia that was easily reachable by public transportation from the city center. Registration and badge pick up went really smooth as we managed to be there on the day before the big opening to attend some inspiring lightning talks. The first exciting moment was when we entered the keynote area, and we knew, this is going to be a big event!
```

While we could write a blog post for each new interesting topic we saw, you most likely don't have the time to read all of them. Instead, we want to keep it short and worthwhile for you with only the most interesting and impactful topics we saw and a short description why they were so interesting for us.

### Crossplane: Compliant Self Service Infrastructure

Crossplane is a framework that allows you to build your own custom control plane to manage any API. It calls itself "The cloud native control plane framework".

Its primary use-case is to provision and manage cloud infrastructure.
It does so by allowing you to build compositions tailored to your needs and make them usable for the users of your Kubernetes cluster as a CRD.
This is similar to how a Postgres Terraform module is an abstraction for creating an RDS instance in AWS with a matching secret in your Kubernetes cluster containing the service password.
However, from a developer perspective Crossplane enables the definition of the application configuration from pure Kubernetes manifests - finally including the required infrastructure in the same GitOps repository.

> Otherwise, developers would also have to manage additional Terraform/Pulumi/CloudFormation code, usually in another GitOps repository, and make sure it stays in sync with application promotions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without crossplane developers have to manage additional Terraform/Pulumi/CloudFormation code, usually in another GitOps repository, and make sure it stays in sync with application promotions.
```

> Additionally, Crossplane allows more fine-grained control for platform engineers on which infrastructure or compositions can be used by the developers. This is achieved by defining Kubernetes Admission controller policies using [Gatekeeper](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper) or [Kyverno](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, Crossplane allows more fine-grained control for platform engineers on which infrastructure or compositions can be used by the developers.
This is achieved by the native Kubernetes RBAC integration and defining Kubernetes Admission controller policies using [Gatekeeper](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/gatekeeper) or [Kyverno](https://github.com/kyverno/kyverno).
```

Crossplane has been a CNCF incubating project for almost a year.
During this year's KubeCon EU there were eight sessions around Crossplane.

> The high attendee count at the [Crossplane maintainer session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xECc7XlD5kY) forced the organizers to limit physical participation for security reasons, which is an indicator for the large impact Crossplane could have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The high attendee count at the [Crossplane maintainer session](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xECc7XlD5kY) forced the organizers to limit physical participation for security reasons, which foreshadows the high impact Crossplane will likely have.
```

### New Kubernetes Gateway API 

> Another novelty in the realm of standardization will be the new Kubernetes-native Gateway API. It supports more use cases than the limited Ingress API and overloaded Service API. These use cases entail load-balancing and routing, with many options for advanced configuration such as head-based matching and traffic weighing. It’s meant to be a standard interface for heterogeneous gateway providers, such as Traefik, Kong, Kuma, Consul, or GKE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another novelty in the realm of standardization will be the new Kubernetes-native Gateway API. It supports more use cases than the limited Ingress API and overloaded Service API. These use cases entail load-balancing and routing, with many options for advanced configuration such as header-based matching and traffic weighing. It’s meant to be a standard interface for heterogeneous gateway providers, such as Traefik, Kong, Kuma, Consul, or GKE.
```

### wasmCloud

There is a famous tweet from Solomon Hykes, the creator of Docker:

```"If WASM+WASI existed in 2008, we wouldn't have needed to created Docker. That's how important it is. Webassembly on the server is the future of computing."```

While the comparison might be exaggerated, it gives a hint of the innovation power of WebAssembly.
One of the main benefits is higher security. While the Linux User Space API contains over 300 functions, the WebAssembly interface is limited to the few functions specific for your workload. Furthermore, WebAssembly is memory safe by design.

On wasmcloud.dev you can experience how a WebAssembly powered cloud might look like.

With wasmCloud you get a modular platform. With WebAssembly, you write actors, which just contains the business logic. As such it does not contain technical code. This is added by capability providers such as HTTP-Servers, Postgres, AWS S3 or Logging. The modular system runs also locally, and you benefit by an increased productivity and portability.

### eBPF - the base for the cool stuff

> While eBPF](https://ebpf.io/) itself is not brand new, most of us didn't hear about it before KubeCon. If you wonder, like us, what the name eBPF might stand for, the answer is: it is no longer an acronym for anything. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While [eBPF](https://ebpf.io/) itself is not brand new, most of us didn't hear about it before KubeCon. If you wonder, like us, what the name eBPF might stand for, the answer is: it is no longer an acronym for anything. 
```

Reviewer 2: Already fixed
